movies-api
Create a robust REST API for managing a movie database.

The situation 👀
The local film society in your town has been maintaining their movie database using spreadsheets for years. As their collection grows, they're finding it increasingly difficult to manage and search through their data. They've approached you to create a simple yet effective API that will allow them to digitize their records and make them more accessible to members.

The film society needs a system that can store information about movies, including their genres and the actors who starred in them. They want to be able to add new movies to the database, update existing entries, and easily retrieve information about specific films or groups of films. Additionally, they'd like to be able to manage their list of genres and actors separately.

To meet their needs, you'll need to develop an API that includes:

Entities to represent movies, genres, and actors
CRUD operations for each entity
Endpoints to retrieve movies by genre or release year
Functionality to associate actors with movies and vice versa
Basic error handling and input validation
Functional requirements 📋
While these instructions provide a framework of best practices and specific guidelines, you'll inevitably encounter scenarios that require independent judgment. Embrace these opportunities to hone your problem-solving skills and discover innovative approaches to implementation. This process of critical thinking and creative solution-finding is integral to your growth as a developer.

SQLite
Your first task is to create the foundation for the film society's new system:

Use SQLite, a lightweight and efficient embedded database, to store movies-api data
Use the go-sqlite3 driver to interface with SQLite
Initialize a Go module using go mod init and set up your folder structure for models, routes, and handlers
Open the project in your preferred IDE
This step sets the stage for building your movie database API.

Entities
Now, create the main players in your database:

Genre (fields: id, name)
Movie (fields: id, title, releaseYear, duration)
Actor (fields: id, name, birthDate)
Establish relationships between these entities:

Genre should have Many-to-Many relationship with Movie
The "Action" genre can have multiple movies like "Die Hard", "The Matrix", and "Mission Impossible".
Similarly, a movie like "Inception" can belong to multiple genres such as "Action", "Sci-Fi", and "Thriller".
Movie should have Many-to-Many relationship with Actor
Example: "Inception" features multiple actors like Leonardo DiCaprio, Ellen Page, and Tom Hardy.
Actor should have Many-to-Many relationship with Movie
Example: Meryl Streep has acted in many movies including "The Devil Wears Prada", "Mamma Mia!", and "The Iron Lady".
Additional instructions:

id field will be the primary key for each entity and must be immutable once set.
birthDate should be in ISO 8601 date format (YYYY-MM-DD).
Repository Layer
To interact with your database, set up the following:

Create a separate package for the repository layer with files for each entity (e.g., genre.go, movie.go, actor.go)
Implement basic CRUD operations using raw SQL queries with the standard database/sql package
These repositories will be your data access toolkit.

Service Layer
Develop service components to handle business logic for each entity:

Create a separate package for the service layer with files for each entity (e.g., genre.go, movie.go, actor.go)
Implement CRUD functions for each service:
Genre
Your API should handle creating new genres, retrieving all genres or a specific genre by ID, and fetching all movies in a specific genre.
You'll also need to implement functions to modify an existing genre's name and to remove a genre from the database.

Movie
For movies, your service should allow adding new movies with their title, release year, duration, associated genre, and actors.
You'll need functions to retrieve all movies, fetch a specific movie by ID, and filter movies by genre or release year.
Don't forget to implement a way to get all actors in a specific movie.
Updating a movie's details (including its title, release year, duration, genre, and actors) and removing a movie should also be supported.

Actor
The actor service should handle adding new actors with their name and birth date.
Implement functions to retrieve all actors, get a specific actor by ID, and filter actors by name. You'll also need a way to fetch all movies an actor has appeared in.
Lastly, ensure you can modify an existing actor's details (including their name, birth date, and associated movies) and remove an actor from the database.

For the purpose of this exercise, use the PATCH method for updating entities instead of PUT. PATCH allows for partial updates to a resource, whereas PUT typically requires sending the complete updated resource.

These services will form the core of your API's functionality, allowing the film society to manage their database effectively.

REST API Handlers
Create the interface for your API:

Implement HTTP handler functions for each entity (Genre, Movie, and Actor)
Set up the following endpoints for each entity:

POST /api/{entity}: Create a new entity
GET /api/{entity}: Retrieve all entities
GET /api/{entity}/{id}: Retrieve a specific entity by ID
PATCH /api/{entity}/{id}: Partially update an existing entity
DELETE /api/{entity}/{id}: Delete an entity
Additionally, implement filtering endpoints for the following:

GET /api/movies?genre={genreId}: Retrieve movies filtered by genre
GET /api/movies?year={releaseYear}: Retrieve movies filtered by release year
GET /api/movies?actor={actorId}: Retrieve movies that the actor with the given id has starred in
GET /api/movies/{movieId}/actors: Retrieve all actors starring in a movie
GET /api/actors?name={name}: Retrieve actors filtered by name
Database Configuration
For this project, you'll be using SQLite as your database. Here's what you need to do:

Install SQLite if you haven't already
Add the go-sqlite3 driver to your project using:
go get github.com/mattn/go-sqlite3
Initialize your database connection using the database/sql package and the SQLite driver
Create a database package or file (e.g. db.go) to manage the connection
Test your database connection by running your application and checking for any errors in the console logs
Basic Error Handling
To make your API more robust and user-friendly, implement these basic error handling techniques:

Input Validation: Use struct field checks or a validation library like go-playground/validator to enforce rules (e.g. required fields, value formats).

Custom Errors: Define custom error variables (like ErrNotFound) to handle cases where requested data isn't found in the database.

Global Error Handling: Create a centralized error handler function to catch and handle common errors, including validation failures and not found cases.

HTTP Status Codes and Error Messages: Return appropriate HTTP status codes (200 OK, 201 Created, 204 No Content, 404 Not Found, etc.). Provide clear, concise error messages that explain what went wrong.

Testing the API
To ensure your API works as expected, you'll use Postman to test it:

Install Postman if you haven't already.
Create a new collection named Movie Database API.
For each entity (Genre, Movie, Actor), create requests for all CRUD operations:
POST to create new entities
GET to retrieve entities
PATCH to update entities
DELETE to remove entities
For filtered GET requests (e.g., movies by genre), test with various query parameters.
For POST and PATCH requests, set up JSON request bodies with sample data.
Send requests and examine the responses:
Check status codes (e.g., 200 for successful GET, 201 for successful POST)
Verify response bodies contain expected data
Test error scenarios:
Try to retrieve non-existent entities
Attempt to create entities with invalid data
Try to delete entities with existing relationships
Pay attention to the HTTP status codes and error messages returned by your API. Ensure they provide clear and helpful information about the result of each operation.

Important Considerations ❗
Use meaningful variable and function names: Choose descriptive names that clearly indicate the purpose or behavior of the variable or function.
Follow consistent code formatting: Adopt a consistent style for indentation, spacing, and bracing to improve code readability.
Write comments for complex logic: Add brief, clear comments to explain non-obvious code sections or complex algorithms.
Handling Deletions with Relationships:
When implementing delete operations, it's crucial to consider the implications of existing relationships.
By default, attempting to delete a resource with existing relationships should not be possible.

For example:

Deleting a genre that has associated movies, the response should indicate that the operation can't be completed:
Cannot delete genre 'Action' because it has 15 associated movies
Deleting an actor who is cast in movies, respond with:
Unable to delete actor 'Tom Hanks' as they are associated with 25 movies
However, you will provide an option for force deletion. This allows for more flexibility while ensuring data integrity.
Implement this as follows:

Add a force query parameter to your delete handler, e.g., DELETE /api/genres/{id}?force=true
If force is false (default), perform the default deletion.
If force is true, perform a forced deletion by removing relationships and deleting resource.
Examples:

Default deletion:
DELETE /api/genres/1
Response: 400 Bad Request
Body: "Cannot delete genre 'Sci-Fi' because it has 30 associated movies."
To perform a force delete:
DELETE /api/genres/1?force=true
Response: 204 No Content
Extra requirements 📚
Pagination
Implement pagination for GET requests that return multiple entities.

Add page and size query parameters to your GET endpoints
Return a JSON response containing the results and basic pagination information
GET /api/movies?page=0&size=10
Basic search
Add a simple search functionality for movies by title.

Implement a case-insensitive, partial match search.
Return a list of movies that match the search criteria.
GET /api/movies/search?title=matrix
Bonus functionality 🎁
You're welcome to implement other bonuses as you see fit. But anything you implement must not change the default functional behavior of your project.

You may use additional feature flags, command line arguments or separate builds to switch your bonus functionality on.

Useful links 🔗
Standard HTTP package
Writing Web Applications with Go
SQLite databases using the Go
Input validation library for Go
Error handling and Go
Postman Tutorial
What you'll learn 🧠
Building a RESTful API using Go and raw SQL
Implementing CRUD operations and custom endpoints
Handling complex relationships between entities
Implementing basic error handling and input validation
Testing API endpoints using Postman and handling various scenarios including error cases
Deliverables and Review Requirements 📁
All source code and configuration files
A README file with:
Project overview
Setup and installation instructions
Usage guide
Any additional features or bonus functionality implemented
During the review, be prepared to:

Demonstrate your application's functionality
Explain your code and design choices
Discuss any challenges you faced and how you overcame them
Sample Data
Include a set of sample data in your database to showcase various relationships and scenarios:

Genres: At least 5 different genres
Movies: Minimum of 20 movies
Each genre has at least 2 associated movies
Some movies have multiple genres
Release years span at least two decades
Actors: At least 15 actors
Each actor is associated with at least one movie
Some actors are in multiple movies
Relationships: Demonstrate various scenarios
Movies with single and multiple genres
Actors in single and multiple movies
Movies with varying numbers of actors
